I am Arjun we are presenting the
implementation video of our project on
the automated public lighting under the
theme smart automation through this
video today the existing public lighting
system has many disadvantages like usage
of high pressure sodium lamps and manual
systems for switching on and off the
street lights through which there is a
huge wastage of power so we need a smart
and eco-friendly lighting solutions here
is where our idea and prototype comes to
your rescue in our project we have
included uh necessary LED lights and
different types of sensors and offgrade
solar panels to reduce power consumption
and use them effectively the overall
objective of a project is to enhance
public lighting efficient uh power
consumption and to be economical let me
start explaining the components that we
use in our project followed by the
working model of our project here uh we
are using ldr sensors to sense ambient
light levels and distinguish between uh
day and night we use ldr for it unique
properties like they are uh good for
their Simplicity and cost Effectiveness
other light sensors like Photo diodes or
photo transistors might be more suitable
for uh real time for motion detection uh
we are using uh infrared sensors to
detect vehical M allowing for adaptive
lightning it increases light as
intensity as needed for Energy savings
the major advantages of using IR sensor
is cost effective energy efficient and
uh quick response with privacy and
intrusion detection I sensors do not
capture images or video making them
suitable for applications where privacy
concerns are Paramount such as
residential area power consumption
monitoring it monitors uh power
consumption of the lightning system it
displays the data on the web application
things speak we are using things speak
for our uh project facilitating compreh
analysis and efficient energy usage off
grid solar panel we are using off grid
solar panel in integrated with uh
battery and controller which is the main
advantage for our project it stores the
energy and utilizes in case of any major
power Cuts or any natural calamities let
me show the working model this is the
working model of our project the
automated public lighting and it
involves three uh sensors respectively
the name namely ldr sensor I sensor and
current sensor the ldr sensor is used to
differentiate day and night and the IR
sensor is used to detect the motion of
the vehicle person and the current
sensor senses the current as a project
is related to iot uh all the sensors are
connected to the ordino board
respectively uncoded such that the ldr
sensor detects light when the ldr does
not detect light the LEDs glow uh here
in our project the two LEDs represent a
single solar lamp on the hole and if the
IR detects motion the LED both the LEDs
glow at full uh intensity when the
motion is detected but during the
sunlight then the led doesn't glow
motion is not detected during uh night
times the only one of the LED uh glows
at uh that is half of the intensity it
glows so to increase the lifetime of the
uh LEDs what we are doing is when the
motion is detected at once both the LEDs
glow and when it is not not there one
one of the LEDs glow and if again it is
there the LEDs are glowing in alternate
uh ways such that the lifetime of the
LED is going to be long now project we
have connected the whole system to the
solar panel which is conned to a
controller and Battery such that during
any natural calamities the battery
stores the energy which is transmitted
to the LEDs and it also glows during
natural calamities which is a advantage
in our project to detect the power
consumption at a w we we have connected
the Wi-Fi module with the Audino such
that it transmits the data that is the
power supplied and the current supplied
uh through the uh solar panel to the
things speak open source the power
consumed in the project is displayed in
the things speak open source as
shown let me just brief you about Wi-Fi
module and the open SCE platform that we
are using in our project we are using
Wi-Fi module ESP a26 which are mainly
used for the connectivity between the
aino and things speak in aino we are
coded for ldr sensor IR sensor current
sensor and also for things speak after
the execution of the code the result may
be considered as the data this data
should be displayed through the things
speak for that espa2 Wi-Fi module is
obligatory for integration of Wi-Fi
module to our project we are access any
Wi-Fi network and transfer the datas by
using SS ID and password we can access
the Wi-Fi network for each channel in
think speak there is generate a API keys
and channel ID number we want to include
this in our code then it makes
connectivity between our aino code and
things speak we are using things speak
because it is open iot platform it is a
friendly interface data can be accessed
by anyone from anywhere any problem
occurs in thing in our system means it
will send alerts and
notification security messes may include
encryption of data in transit user
authentication and access net controls
ensuring that only authorized users or
devices can interact with the data on
things speak these practices are
essentially to maintain the integrity
and confidentially of the data in the
platform so we are preferring things
speak use case of projects are automated
lightning turns light on at desk and off
and down optimizing energy consumptions
and providing adequate lightning motion
activated lightning activate lights
based on motion minimizing unnecessary
usage and saving on energy cost shift
for rediction identify small functioning
lights such as fused lights rapidly
ensuring quick maintenance
energy insights monitors power usage
patterns empowering informed decisions
for efficiency and cost reduction cost
effective elimination optimizes public
lighting lowering operational cost while
maintaining safety and visibility the
main use case of a project is offgrid
solar panel which used to store energy
with solar panel and a battery that can
be used in future smart energy saving
lightning utilizes technology for
efficient energy usage reducing waste
and promoting
sustainability in conclusion the
development of an automated public
lighting system as presented represents
a significant advancement in urban
infrastructure management this
Innovative solution not only enhances
Energy Efficiency but also improves
Public Safety reduces operational cost
and minimizes environmental impact the
successful implementation of this
project could not only benefit
municipalities but also pay the way for
a more sustainable and Tech
techologically Advanced future it is
imperative that we continue to
collaborate and invest in such
transformative solutions to create
smarter and more resilient cities thank
you
